The Tuti-nama is a compiled series of stories that is told to a woman by a
parrot to keep her company  to avoid her leaving the house to have an affair
with someone for her husband has left her alone whilst he is on a business trip.
For 52 nights the parrot entertains her with fables so that she does not tire of
sitting at home alone.
Chapter 25 “Of a Woman, who, having gone to buy Sugar had an Amour with a
Grocer” is told on the eighth night.
The story follows a woman who was told to go and buy some sugar at the market
by her husband. The wife agrees, takes the money, and goes and purchases a
“seer” (p 127) which is approximately 2 pounds worth of sugar. Notice the detail
to her clothing. Her veil is see through, large portions of her body are on
display and her jewelry is excessive and eye catching.
As she was buying the sugar the “grocer plied her with pleasant discourse”
and she fell victim to his charms. She left the sugar bag outside whilst she was
partaking in the adulterous activity with the grocer in his house. As you can
see in the image they are situated at the bottom of the house not in the domed
area of the house - which can be seen as a holy place such as in temples. This
gives the reader a visual representation of how the artwork conveys the message
that this act of love making is not part of the holy covenant of marriage.
Whilst the grocer and the wife were in the house the shopman exchanged the sugar
for sand in hopes of exposing the wife to her husband.
After some time the wife went back home with her two pound bag. You can see just
how much time has passed because of the colouring of the sky in the paintings.
Notice the mountains are now purple rather than the sandy brown as well as the
sky having some more details resulting in a beautiful sunset concept.
The husband meets his wife and looks into the bag to find sand instead of the
sugar he was expecting. Immediately he questioned her.
Being the cunning woman she is, she came up with an elaborate story to
account for the sand instead of sugar, the lost money, and the amount of time
that had passed. The wife without hesitation started “As soon as I got out of
the house an ox ran at me, upon which I took to flight, and tumbled on the
ground; the money fell out of my hand, and as I was ashamed to look for it
before the men who were present, I took up the sand from the spot, and have
brought it here”.
Her husband adorns her with kisses as he forgives her and feels sorry for her.
However, notice how again they are not in the dome, the holy place of the house.
Again her sin does not allow her to be in that holy place as expressed in the artwork.
In the dome structure we can see some of the architecture using the arches both
inwardly in the window and outwardly on the surrounding ledge.
At the end of the day, the parrot is calming the woman with a story that she
could use to trick her own husband but alas, by the time she made up her mind to
go find her lover the sun rose and “her departure was deferred”.